# Mouse-Event-over-out-vs-enter-leave

Have you ever really given it much thought as to why there are so many DOM mouse events? I always wondered but never really understood the difference until now. Depending on the functionality you want from your elements knowing what makes mouse events different can save you a lot of time.

## When they are Triggered
`mouseover` is triggered as soon as the mouse enters the element, and the same goes for `mouseenter`. `mouseout` and `mouseleave` are both triggered when they leave the element. The huge difference between these events lies with event delegation. Event delegation is the process of attaching an event to a parent node and having it trigger on the child nodes to find the matching `event.target`. The most inner node event is triggered first then bubbles up to the parent node. `mouseover` and `mouseout` do this type of bubbling while `mouseenter` and `mouseleave` do not. So if we have a nested node with the `mouseover/mouseout` event attached to the parent node mouseover will trigger once we enter the parent but mouseout will trigger once the mouse goes over the child, then immediately mouseover will trigger on the child node and mouseout again when we go back to the parent. Mouseenter/mouseleave however will trigger when we enter the parent and leave the parent without being triggered by pesky children nodes.

## Use cases
These events each have their own benefits depending on the desired functionality. If we want each cell of a table to do something when the the mouse goes over then we would want to use mouseover/mouseout on table and use `event.target` to make the specific changes to a cell. This is better than attaching a mouse event or mouseenter/mouseleave to each cell in the table. Now if you want something like a dropdown with options you can select mouseenter/mouseleave is a better choice because children will not trigger the event when the mouse enters them. If you use mouseover/mouseout to trigger the dropdown then every child node will trigger the event and you will not get the desired functionality.
